Everything I'm gonna cover and arguably
more than I'm gonna cover today is in
this course website where there is
everything we'll talk about and
then a bunch of stuff
where I wrote the content.
But then some of it is kind
of the extended cut is
in this course website here where
you can kind of follow along.
And for a lot of this stuff, if you saw me
do something real quick, there might be
like an animated GIF, or at least some
prose kind of like explaining it.
Or if you need it
reinforced in another way,
all of this is kind of
written out as well.
But more importantly, we have this project
file that we're going to work through.
I'm gonna make a fork of it to try to
leave the initial one into a clean state.
So when someone watches this later, they
kind of see exactly where we started from,
not where I drew random buttons and
did stuff like that.
But you can also hit open in Figma and
you will get kind of your own fourth
that you can follow along and
play along with as well, and then see
what I'm doing in my file as well.
So, with that, let's take a tour
of Figma as it was all about.
So mostly, like most of what's happening
in Figma is kind of on three sides, right?
Along the top we have this toolbar,
which has a lot of the very
basic tools that we might use.
You'll notice that for a lot of these
things, either there's a carrot and
a menu, or it's a one one piece thing that
has a little like letter that you can hit.
And so this is if you ever use like
something like Final Cut Pro or
Photoshop or some other tools, you can
switch tools just by hitting K to switch
to the Scale tool or vi to switch to
the Move tool so on and so forth.
The nice part is you can
kind of see what those
shortcuts are just by
hovering over the things.
I will use some of
the really common shortcuts.
I will try not to use a lot of esoteric
ones because it is a lot easier for
you to follow my mouse than it is for
you to magically know what like I did for
muscle memory in some kind of like
code to make a certain thing happen.
So generally speaking you know if for
the very common things, I will say, and
I will sometimes slip up because some
of this is muscle memory after doing
it a thousand times.
But generally speaking, there are keyboard
shortcuts for literally everything.
So we've got the keyboard shortcuts for
all of these tools.
This menu here is the Figma menu.
If you are using the desktop application,
you will notice that it has some striking
similarities to what's
going up along top here.
The interesting part about Figma is that
it's theoretically a web app that has
a desktop app like most of the stuff
on my computer these days.
It's a web app in a desktop shell.
There's a really great
course called by me.
[LAUGH] you can totally check out
how to build desktop applications.
But that's a different story for
a different day.
There's no expectation you can do this
in the browser you can do in the desktop
application.
I find in my day to day life that I have
whatever I was working on in desktop
application, and then every random link
I got sent in Slack is usually open
in one of my 7000 browser to Tabs.
So, if you're using a desktop app, you've
got all the stuff up and along here.
If you are just in a web app,
all that can also be found here as well.
In the center of the toolbar, and
I'm zoomed in a little bit, but
you'll have a little more
of a separation there.
You will kind of see information about
the file, where you can do stuff.
Stuff like showing the version history,
publish a library if
you're on a paid plan.
There's some branching,
which I think is very much you would see
from Git except no designer has
ever used it in my experience.
Some other file related things.
If you are on a given element, this
changes to some various different, like,
ability to make reusable components or
some other things with that given layer.
But if you're kind of just
in the regular field,
then it's information about the file.
And then to the right of
this top toolbar here,
you have information about your account,
the ability to share a file.
You can do a lot of stuff like you
might see in, like, Google Drive,
share it in view-only mode.
So on and so forth,
there is a lot of like multiplayer,
multiple cursors flying around.
I have that disabled for
all of our Saturdays.
But you can also see all of that as well.
And then just kind of information about
your account like there's ability to chat,
all that kind of fun stuff.
This is developer mode which is
good gated behind a paid feature.
I happen to have a paid account.
It does stuff like allowing
you to see some of the CSS and
measurements around things as
you're gonna implement it.
It's nice, it's not required.
A lot of what we're gonna talk about
today is some of the strategies around
how you can kind of like structure
your designs should make a lot more of
these concepts easier, right?
There's a lot of concepts that map
directly to like Flexbox for instance, and
if you and your design team are using
those, it becomes really clear.
Now grid is totally helpful to see some
of the like Flexbox cheat sheets but
one usually has to kind of take
these as an initial inspiration,
rather than there's nothing really you can
always just copy and paste for most cases.
We have any libraries that we want to
use from our organization, or publishing
this as a library, along with prototyping,
and a bunch of like zooming options.
You can see as I pinch to zoom,
that zoom kind of increases and decreases.
All right, let's turn off dev mode.
Along the side, we have this left panel
that has two major pieces is pages.
So design could have multiple pages.
This might be if you're
doing a component library,
your input fields versus your buttons,
versus something else.
In my case, since I'm using this as kind
of the like, quote, unquote, lesson plan,
agenda is broken out by the different
sections that we're gonna cover.
And then towards the bottom,
you can see all the different layers in
a given page and navigate between them.
You also have your assets, which are gonna
be any kind of like shared components.
Initially in the file,
this will start out as empty for you.
And as we create components that
are reusable, you will see them here.
If your organization has a shared
component library and that they've
published within the org, you'll also see
that shared set of components as well.
Then over on the right side, this is where
for a given layer that we're playing with,
you'll see all the different
properties that we can manipulate.
Most of the tweaking that you
do will happen in this pane.
And towards the end very briefly,
we'll kind of take a look at the kind
of prototyping interaction design piece
that people a gym can use, are you
to kind of create a working prototype
before you go sit down and write code.
But most of our time is going to actually
be focused on the like building and
structure of design components before
we receive them on the developer end.
And that, there's a few other things.
One, you'll notice if you go to
the Figma menu, there's quick actions,
which is one of those command palettes
like you might see in VS code or
something along those lines.
Where you can just search for
a given menu.
One thing that you'll find in there is
also these keyboard shortcuts, which will
be all the various keyboard shortcuts that
you can learn and memorize over time.
Like I said, I am gonna try
my hardest to avoid too much
keyboard magic because I know
it's hard to follow that.
But over time, if you find yourself
doing something repetitive,
there is probably a keyboard
shortcut to make it easier.
Or sometimes it's like the difference
between holding shift or
command while clicking on a various part
of the UI will be a shortcut, right?
And some of those will find out together.
But for your use cases, there is
probably something that you might see.
For instance, I literally did not know
about hitting double zero to change
the opacity to 0% on a layer until I just
left this tab open while talking to you.
And obviously in the middle you have this
canvas here, which is the design itself.
And we will talk a little bit in the very
beginning before we get into components.
Variables and responsive design and
layout grids and
all that fun stuff we're gonna
learn how to click on things.
Right it feels a little but
like eating our vegetables but
it's gonna be good it's gonna be a point
because we'll make our lives easier
as we do some of those more complicated
things later in the workshop.